Offline Task: Effects of DDT
DDT is known for being a harmful chemical and was critiqued multiple times for its inability to stop diseases from spreading. However, these claims have to be understood with a grain of salt. In heavy quantities, DDT is harmful to the ecosystem it inhibits like the passage suggests. In small quantities though, it does more good than harm like killing insects that spread airborne diseases in plants and animals. Additionally, it acts as a natural predator and keeps the ecosystem in balance by limiting insect populations and thus maintaining the plant population. Coming to humans, it is not as toxic as it has been led to believe as stated by World Health Organization (WHO). The American medical association believes it is harmful enough to ban it in from usage in USA. Many studies concluding the toxic effects of DDT on human health have been found inadequate. DDT wipes out the insect populations that spread fatal human diseases and in general contribute to positive public health. The only exception being mosquitoes which developed resistance to this chemical making it ineffective.

Online Task: Shopping
	In this era of internet of things, every service is available online. All the comforts of life are a click of a button away and ofcourse with sufficient bank balance. Shopping online now can be done for a variety of areas like - home, dining, clothes and jewellery. Traditionally, these items have to be bought from different shops and often times in different areas of a city.  Online, however, one has multiple options in terms of selling places [websites] and brands and after selecting products per your fancy, they are delivered to your doorstep. This indirectly saves fuel, energy and time for everyone involved in this consumerist cycle. On the other hand, people can shop from the comfort of their homes. Even after receiving the pieces, one has the option to return them to the seller. Online shopping also provides the shopper to see reviews by other shoppers and evaluate their choices. Overall, online shopping is favorable to modern people and their busy lives than traditional retail shopping.
