Offline(Task)              

DDT AND ITS MALEFIC EFFECTS.

DDT is a human-manufactured chemical fertilizer that was originally used to control the rampant spread of diseases and later used for agricultural purposes. Though originally thought to have beneficial effects, the chemical proved to be detrimental to both the environment and human life in general. It was originally thought to be a guard against the mosquito-spread diseases and also stop the harmful pests creeping into the the agricultural farmlands. DDT is believed to affect the soil structure drastically wherein a large number of fauna in the soil die because of ingestion of DDT in their bodies. So, from the above facts we can deduce that DDT does more harm than it does good. The lecture presents a quite different take on the DDT and its effects. It says DDT in small amounts is not really harmful but rather advantageous to plants and also to humans indirectly. If the usage of DDT is abused then it does a lot more harm than good. 


Online(Task) 

RETAIL or ONLINE SHOPPING - a DILEMMA ?

Internet has become more or less the mantra for everyone’s lifestyle change. It literally serves the modern era needs and wants effortlessly. Shopping for instance is a popular outing for families and bachelors alike. Due to the setting up of various e-business firms like Amazon, Snapdeal, Jabong, Myntra etc. people are slowly moving towards online shopping over retail shopping. It overcomes the need for travelling, and also the ease of doing shopping as it provides exciting online shopping offers. Online shopping showcases a large collection of various products ranging from smartphones to clothes. 
One aspect where it may fall short of the requirements is the hands on experience with the product that the customer wishes to have. In this aspect retail shopping still holds an edge over online shopping as it not only provides the needed hands on experience but also showcases food outlets, which are more or less the sole reason for families to move out for shopping. Other than just providing for food outlets they also include movie theatres that are an advantage for retail shopping malls. I, personally prefer retail shopping malls because apart from just shopping they also house various options for entertainment including food outlets,  thereby becoming a better choice for shopping or a casual dinner. 


