Offline Task :

In this lecture, the lecturer explains the benefits of using DDT which is used to eradicate the disease carrying insects and pests, which destroy the plants. According to the write-up, DDT is much more harmful than expected which was evident through a series of scientific research on DDT. But, the lecturer explains the beneficial nature of the DDT through a series of examples. 

According to the reading, although DDT is designed to protect humans and plants from disease carrying insects, is a hazard to the environment because it gets accumulated in the soil and water bodies through which it enters the bodies of animals and birds. But, the lecture explains that when present in small quantities, DDT is most likely to kill disease carrying insects. It also checks the population of disease carrying insects from escalating.

In addition to it, DDT is beneficial to the human health. According to the reading, DDT endangers the health of humans, who consume DDT through various means which according to studies lead to birth defects, increase the risk of diabetes and various forms of cancer. But actually, when consumed in small quantities, DDT doesn’t do much harm to the humans. Even the World Health Organization (WHO) considers it moderately hazardous. Some studies which tried to establish correlation between the DDT and things like cancer (or) any kind of reproductive diseases are inconclusive. Thus, reducing the quantity of DDT, life expectancy of humans can increase.

Finally, the reading suggests that DDT had failed to effectively combat disease carrying mosquitoes and thus diseases like malaria continues to spread because it had developed resistance to this chemical. But, the lecture points out that DDT had successfully combated against diseases like malaria in the past. The lecturer gives an example of SriLanka where from 1930 - 1955, malaria was rampant in the country. After the usage of DDT, malaria cases had seen a decline where only 17 cases were recorded.

Online Task : 

In this present day world, we lead a life where we don’t get time to even cook our food. We try to order it from outside through the use of mobile apps like Swiggy and Zomato. Even I fall into this category. But, when it comes to buy some clothes, I prefer to go to stores rather than purchasing it online.
When we buy the dresses from retail outlets, there will be salesmen who give us suggestions as to which dress to buy (or) which dress will suit us the best and that will help us to buy the best dress. Also, they give us updates about the latest fashioned clothes.In online, that is not the case. There will be reviews from other customers who had bought this and we need to entirely depend on these to buy a dress of our choice.
When we buy the clothes from stores, we can check how well the dress fits us and how we look in this dress. We can also check the quality of the dress by verifying about the material. That may not be same in case if we buy the clothes through online platforms. We may not have any idea on the kind of cloth that we are going to buy.
When we purchase any dress from a retail store, we can show the dress to others and can get a feedback so that we may not buy this kind of dress in the future, if it is not good. While shopping online, we don’ t get the purchased item immediately and we have to wait for a longer time to receive it. In the case of replacing the dress, we can go directly into the store for the exchange but in case if we buy it from the retail outlets but, if we shop online, it takes a longer duration because in this case third party vendors are involved.
There are several advantages in case if we shop online but these advantages are limited only to buy any electronic goods (or) other items. In case of purchasing clothes, it is better to go to retail outlets so that we can choose the best ones that fit to us.

