Answer 1:

According to the reading passage, there are more harmful effects of DDT than benefits. But, in the lecture it is said that, there are lot of uses and applications of DDT.
In the passage, it is given that environment is greatly damaged due to DDT, but it is present in small quantities in the environment. DDT can also kill insects and pests which spreads diseases in flora and fauna and it also prevents the reduction of their count.
The reading warns that there is a danger to human health because of DDT, whereas the lecture opposes it. According to lecture, it is not hazardous if we use it in less amounts.
DDT failed to fight with malaria. But, the lecture says that there are many instances where DDT wiped out deadly diseases. In Sri Lanka, with the help of DDT, lot of lives were saved.

Answer 2:

Shopping is done in both online and offline modes. Online shopping has increased in percentage when compared to past. Even Though online shopping has great benefits I prefer to shop at outlet stores. 
In retail outlets, we can view the clothes directly. There will be a chance to really feel the things which we require. A sales person will be present to clear our doubts and explain in detail about the equipment which we are going to buy. But in online shopping, we do not have that facility. We cannot know the quality of the products just by seeing them in our electronic devices. I agree that there are hundreds of varieties available in online, but looking at the products virtually does not satisfy me. There is no chance to give a trial if we buy costumes and footwear. So, there might occur issues with size and quality. 
In market, people can bargain and cost can be reduced which is very useful for middle class people. But in online, there is no reduction in cost. The price which is displayed will be final. Moreover, retail shops are accessible to everyone easily but online mode is not used by everyone. Uneducated people find it difficult to shop online. Some of them misuse online way of shopping. Just for fun, they order the items and put the wrong details. But there is a loss to company in time and transportation. 
For instance, a neighbour of mine recently ordered phone online but deliberately entered the incorrect information. I asked him not to do that but he did not listen to me. Then, I felt there would be many who does the same. So, this is the main disadvantage of online shopping.
In addition, I ordered HP laptop online but I received another brand i.e Dell, and I was disappointed very much. I was taken aback when I have seen the laptop.
Shopping in stores may also have some disadvantages but less when compared to online. It is also secure and comfortable.





