OFFLINE:
In the reading Passage, harmful effects of human-manufactured chemical DDT are explained. DDT was once manufactured to regulate the spread of unwanted insects. But gradually DDT started to show its side effects on the environment, according to scientists. 
First effect as described in the passage is its effect on Plants and animals such as fish and birds. When present in large quantities, DDT can poison and even kill wildlife. DDT played a major role in the decline of bald eagle. However lecturer opposed the above point by stating that DDT sometimes can benefit plants and animals. Consuming DDT in smaller quantities, it is likely to kill only insects which spread deadly diseases thereby saving certain species. Even WHO stated the above point.  
Second effect described is its effect on the health of human lives. According to studies, DDT’s exposure can strengthen the risk of diabetes, birth defects and various forms of cancer. Severity of these effects made US to ban this chemical. But in the lecture it is mentioned that studies confirming the risk of cancer were inconclusive. DDT actually improves public health by eliminating disease spreading insects.
Third effect is its inefficiency in combating deadly diseases after a certain time. Lecturer opposed it by giving the example of malaria in Sri Lanka, where millions of  lives were saved after the arrival of DDT.

ONLINE:
Shopping of items is essential in human life. We can buy items through offline sources or online sources depending on the individual choice. My choice of shopping would be from retail outlets. Retail outlets are shopping venues where we can view and compare the product in live.
Shopping through retail outlets give us a chance of bargaining the price as there is human interaction. This is not possible if we shop from online sources as the prices are fixed. Also as discussed above, it is not possible to view the product physically in online sources. Credibility of the product is high in case of retail outlets where as in case of online sources, we may receive fraud products.
Products need to be in good condition till some amount of time. This is the time what companies call it as warranty period. They provide certain benefits in this period. So if we purchase products from retail outlets, we can avail authentic warranty service for the mentioned period by the company. But if we purchase products through offline stores, we don’t get clear idea on how to avail warranty. Also due to incredibility of the sellers, warranty may not be availed. Coming to refund of the items, we can refund the item immediately in case of retail outlets. This facility is also available in online stores but with a lot of steps to follow. There can also be delay in pick up of the product by the seller. 
Shopping through retail outlets also provide extra benefits like interacting with shop owners, availing parking benefits, trying different outlets in the same locality. This makes us to select a perfect product. Also my interest of traveling can be added to that because while going to different outlets, it involves lot of traveling among different places. To sum up, I prefer shopping offline because of live viewing of product and credibility of the product. 


